S01

This is not the first time that I have used Git, however, previous experiences has been through
both the built in GitHub client in Intellij as well as the desktop client. It is therefore 
refreshing to get some experience with git using the command line. It is also the first time that
I have used GitHub pages, mostly because I did not know it existed and never had the need to use it before.
It is still a good tool to use for web development by having somewhere to test your website during development
without having the need to have a custom domain. I have not previously used tools such as Markdown or other tools like it.


I have done websites before but started very recently (December 2019) by learning it on my spare time.
I managed to develop a portfolio (www.madrusan.xyz) which is still under development as it is not responsive yet.
However, I had a previous version that was resposnsive but recently created a new one as the previous did
not feel professional enough and was made in a haste. Therefore, I have some knowledge and experience with 
web development but would need to learn a strcutured approach towards it. Which is what I hope I will
learn during this course. During the previous project course, I have also used simpler networking functions in js to
be able to connect a website to a server. This was done by using both REST API calls with ajax and using WebSockets.
The website was then connected to a java based web server. Even though I have some experience with web development, I do
feel that I have only touched the surface of the subject.

TIL
There are not to many new things for me in this section. However, getting more comfortable with using the git command line 
as well as using GitHub pages which seem to be a very useful tool for web development.

S02

I have previously had some experience with HTML, CSS & JavaScript. However, most of the JS had been done together
with jQuery. Therefore, I do not have used JS with application logic but for manipulating the front-end of the web
application. So most of my web development expreience have been with HTML and CSS.

HTML, CSS and JS plays different parts in web development. HTML creates the structure of the a page. By creating 
different elements, a developer is able to strucutre how the visuals should be set up. CSS applies visual style to the
HTML elements. JS creates the logic behind the HTML, this is to make the website more dynamic. JS also makes the 
site more interactive for the user. Furthermore, JS takes care of all logic behind the visual that the users can see.
This means that JS allows the developer to do a lot of logic 'behind the curtains' which makes a web application
more dynamic. All together, HTML sets the scene, CSS applies visuals to the scene which JS handles everything behind
the curtains.

The browser and the web server creates a client-server structure. In which the client (browser) fetches data or sends data
to the server which handles the information. In this way, the server works as a back-end for the browser. HTTP (Hypertext transfer
protocol) creates a uniform way in which all broswers and alla web server are able to transfer data between each other 
in the same way.

TIL
Not a lot of new things have been learned during this section of the course. As I have had previous knowledge of HTML, CSS and
JS. We have also learned of the client-server structure and how network communication works. However, it is always good
to refresh previous knowledge.

S03

I have previously had some experience with JavaScript, however, it has often been combined with jQuery so manipulate 
HTML elements depening on different actions. JS is a little different from languages previously learned in the programme.
As Java is strictly object-oriented, JS has other properties which gives the language its unique features. As JS operates 
with objects, it does not enforce the developer to follow object-oriented priciples, such as Java. Therefore, JS is comparable
with other languages such as C# and Java as they all work with objects. Hence, JS can be related to other popular languages
as it works with objects while it does not enforce OOP principles as other languages might do.

I was aiming for grade 5 in this assignment. Firstly, I looked at the different requirements for each grade. I then decided 
to work on the school part, then the flag and lastly the moving object. As I knew that I was aiming for grade 5,
I immediately started to work on a dynamic HTML table. This was done by creating an empty table and dynamically fill it
from the JSON file of the choosen school district code. The flags was easily implemented as each flag was put in its own
div and each color of the flag was a div of itself. In the end, each flag consisted of a div which had 3 divs. Lastly, the
moving object was implemented by adding an element to each HTML. This element was given a random X and Y position in which
it fades away, move to given position and then fades in at the new position. Overall, I'm satisfied with the code and 
feel that I have reached the grade I aimed for.

TIL
I've learned new ways to use JS to dynamically updated or create elements as well as manipulating it in different ways.
I've also learned that JS can be used in multiple ways to fit the need of the application which makes it a very versatile
language.

S04

I have not previously worked with node. However, I have used node/npm to install frameworks or such for other projects. 
It was therefore a new experience to actually work with it in a programming way. Using together with JS and Express has been
challenging. Mostly because it is the first time working in such a structure as the frameworks creates. It is a client-server 
type of workflow, however, the middleware and the routing is new for me. It has been one of the more challenging tasks during 
the programme. 

I started by looking at the youtube videos of the lecture and the assignment. After that, I read through the provided 
documentation. However, it took some time before I understood how it all is connected. I did not really have a plan to start with 
as I did not quite understand how to structure the code. When I understood that, it was easy to set up a plan and follow it.
The plan worked when I finally could grasp what was asked for in the assignment and the watching the lectures a couple of times.
As the I had a hard time to grasp the assignment I aimed for grade 3 as I felt that I did not want to spent too much time on 
the assignment as there are multiple things to focus on in both this course and other courses.

TIL
How to structure a simple node and express application. It is seem close to a MVC workflow and when having a better understanding,
it could be used to structure more complex applications in a simpler way. Modules are very useful too when creating parts of a
application as it can make it more dynamic without adding too much code to a single page.